Dear brothers and sisters, welcome to this 2021 Powerful by Faith Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And let me begin by extending to all of you the warm Christian love and greetings from the governing body and the United States Bethel family.
And let me assure you that we continue to pray on your behalf.
Powerful by Faith. What a motivating, what an encouraging theme for this convention.
What are we going to learn?
Well, we're going to concentrate on answering three questions at this convention.
The first one is, what is faith?
The second one is, what can faith do for us?
And the third is, how can we build our faith?
Well, it's appropriate since this is the introduction to the convention for us to spend some time talking about each one of those questions.
So let's begin with that first question. What is faith?
Now, brothers and sisters, we know that faith is something that is produced in us by God's Holy Spirit.
In fact, Galatians chapter 5 says that faith is a part of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
So if we have God's Spirit, we will have faith.
But what exactly is faith?
Well, let's go in our Bibles. Let's see the definition the Bible gives in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1.
Would you read it with me?
Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1 says,
Faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for, the evident demonstration of realities that are not seen.
Now, you'll notice the definition of faith is given in two parts. What is the first part?
Well, first it says, faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for.
Well, what is that mean?
Well, faith is the conviction that we will have the things that we hope for.
Maybe we can illustrate it this way.
You know, it's like the conviction we have when we go to bed at night that the sun is going to rise in the morning.
It's the conviction that the farmer has when he saw his seed that those seeds are going to sprout and they're going to grow.
Faith makes future things promised by God as real as if we already have them now.
That means that the person with faith firmly believes that everything that Jehovah says is true and that all of the promises that Jehovah has made are going to come to reality.
But now, what's the second part of that definition?
Faith is the evident demonstration of realities that are not seen.
Hmm, what does that mean?
Well, maybe we could illustrate it with something simple like this cell phone.
Now, if you have a cell phone and you have cell phone service, then wherever you may be on the earth, I could call you right now.
But now, there are no wires attached to this phone. How could that possibly work?
Well, of course, we know that this technology relies on radio waves.
Now, you and I can't see radio waves.
But every time we make a call on our cell phones, we see the evidence or the evident demonstration that radio waves are real, even though we cannot see them.
What's the point?
If we really have faith, it means that we can believe in something that is verified by strong evidence even though it is unseen.
Well, that means that faith, as described in the Bible, is not unquestioning.
It is not irrational. It is not foolish or gullible.
It is not being quick to believe something with little or no evidence.
True faith comes from a careful analysis and study of God's precious word, the Bible.
The accurate knowledge that we gain from God's word helps us to build our faith.
It's there in the Bible that we learn about God.
We learn about His name. We learn about His promises that have already come true.
And we learn about promises that He's made, exciting promises for our future.
But faith is also built and established by something else. What is that?
Well, it's the creation.
When we look up into the night sky and we see the exact order in the universe.
How does it make us feel? Or when we look at the human brain and its complexity or the complexity of the human eye,
we have to come to the conclusion that there must be a designer.
There is strong evidence for an intelligent creator.
Well, now, why is it so important that you and I grow in our faith and develop faith?
Well, the Bible answers that question too.
Would you look with me at Hebrews 11 and verse 6?
Hebrews 11 and 6. It says,
moreover, without faith, it is impossible. Isn't that interesting?
It is impossible to please God well for whoever approaches God must believe that He is
and that He becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking Him.
Well, did you see the point? Without faith, it is impossible to please God.
So faith is essential if we are going to please God and have His blessing.
Well, we've talked quite a bit about what faith is.
But here are two things that faith is not.
Faith is not simply believing that God exists because the Bible says
even the demons believe in God, but they shudder.
It involves coming to know Jehovah,
coming to trust Him, forming an unbreakable friendship with Him
so that Jehovah is so real to us that we sense His love
and sense His approval in our day-to-day life.
What's the other thing that faith is not?
Faith is not simply hoping for something.
The Bible uses the example of Abraham.
Now, Abraham had the demonstration of the things that he hoped for.
He had evidence that God was real.
But how did that affect Abraham? What was the result?
Let's read together this important scripture,
Romans chapter 4 and verse 20.
It says,
But because of the promise of God,
He, that is Abraham, did not waver in a lack of faith.
But notice what did He do?
He became powerful by faith, giving God glory.
You see, Abraham was moved.
He was motivated. He was empowered.
He became powerful by His faith.
Well, how appropriately then that Romans chapter 4 and verse 20
has been chosen as the theme text for this convention.
Now, in a moment, we are going to talk about the power of faith.
But before we do, we have a wonderful treat now.
Please give your attention to a recorded message from our dear brother,
Jeffrey Jackson of the governing body,
as he explains to us how important faith is for Christians today.
Welcome to the powerful by faith convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
You'll certainly be happy that you made the effort to attend all three days of this convention.
The expression, powerful by faith,
is drawn from the Apostle Paul's words at Romans chapter 4 and verse 20.
Why did the governing body choose faith as the theme for this year's convention?
Because we need strong faith to deal successfully with our present trials
and with those we'll face in the near future.
At Matthew chapter 17 and verse 20, Jesus assured His disciples.
If you have faith, the size of a mustard grain,
you will say to this mountain, move from here to there,
and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.
Yes, faith enables us to do things we could never imagine doing on our own.
For Christians, faith is essential.
In fact, God commands us to have faith.
At first, John chapter 3 and verse 23, we read,
Indeed, this is His commandment that we have faith in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ,
and love one another just as He gave us a commandment.
And Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6 tells us,
Without faith, it is impossible to please God well.
For whoever approaches God must believe that He is,
and that He becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking Him.
Clearly, to receive Jehovah's blessing and gain the reward of everlasting life,
we need to build and maintain faith.
At Romans chapter 1 verse 17, quoting the prophet Habakkuk,
Paul wrote,
The righteous one will live by reason of faith.
With these words, Paul emphasized that Jehovah will reward all who show real faith.
Based on our faith in Jesus' ransom, Jehovah forgives our sins,
and grants us a righteous standing with Him even now.
And during Armageddon, Jehovah will protect God's people,
and then give them the opportunity to live forever in paradise.
That's what we want for all of you.
Most of us here today already have a large measure of faith,
and as Paul wrote at 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 24,
It is by your faith that you are standing.
Reports from around the globe testify to your genuine faith
and the good that Jehovah is accomplishing through you because of your faith.
We feel as Paul expressed a Colossians chapter 1 and verses 3 and 4.
We always thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ when we pray for you,
since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the holy ones.
But constant pressure from Satan and the demons, the old world and our own imperfections,
can weaken and wear down our faith.
The purpose of this convention is to strengthen that faith.
We'll learn how to cultivate true faith, how to exercise it in our daily lives,
and how to maintain it during difficult times.
So please, pay close attention to each part of the program.
As scriptures are read, follow along in the Bible,
and may God's Word empower you to be a man, woman or child of faith.
Thank you so much, Brother Jackson.
Well, let's come back now to the point we were discussing.
What is the power of faith?
Well, now to open this discussion, let's open our Bibles and let's go to Matthew chapter 17
and let's read together verses 19 and 20.
That's Matthew 17, verses 19 and 20.
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said,
Why could we not expel it?
He said to them, Because of your little faith, for truly I say to you,
If you have the faith, the size of a mustard grain,
you will say to this mountain, move from here to there.
And it will move and nothing will be impossible for you.
Wow, Jesus said that faith is powerful.
He said nothing will be impossible for you.
Well, just as Peter, because of his faith,
was able to get out of the boat and walk on the water,
our faith can enable us to do things that from a human perspective
seemed to be completely impossible.
Let's consider six different things.
Here's the first one.
Faith opens up the privilege of being able to walk
with our wonderful amazing God, Jehovah.
Well, now what does that mean?
Well, the Bible says men of faith like Noah walked with the true God,
but what does it mean when it says that?
Well, Noah followed Jehovah's commandments and instructions so carefully,
and Noah loved Jehovah so much that it was just as though Noah and Jehovah
were walking down the street together as the closest and most intimate of friends.
That is something that faith made possible for Noah.
But brothers and sisters, here's the really wonderful and amazing thing.
That was true for Noah, but it's also true for you,
and it's also true for me.
We too can experience what seems impossible to be actually walking
with our Heavenly Father day by day.
That is the power of faith.
Let's look at a second one.
Faith moves us to obey the commands of God without hesitation.
Now, as an example, we think of Abraham.
He's called in the Scriptures the Father of all those having faith.
Now, how is Abraham an example?
Well, he was quick to obey Jehovah even when Jehovah asked him to do things
that were very difficult, like leaving her and offering up his only son.
Abraham was willing to obey because of his faith.
But now, brothers, think.
Think about what this makes possible today.
People who have been addicted to drugs, to tobacco, to alcohol, to gambling, to pornography,
people who have been living immoral lifestyles of all sorts, people who said
they would never be able to give up those habits.
They would never be able to change their lifestyle, but what happened?
As they developed faith through their faith, through their desire to please Jehovah,
they broke free from all of those things.
We have seen people like that.
You have seen them. I have seen them.
We know that people like this have conquered all of these bad things because of their faith.
Maybe you are one of those people, brothers and sisters, that is the real power of faith.
Not something theoretical, not something imagined, but in action, people experience that power
in their own lives.
Let's go to the third one.
Faith in the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises moves us to want to go out and preach the good news of God's kingdom.
Now, let's read what the Scriptures say about this in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 13.
It says there,
Now, because we have the same spirit of faith, as that of which it is written,
I exercised faith, therefore I spoke, we too exercised faith, and therefore we speak.
Well, what does it mean?
Without faith, without exercising faith in the promises of God, we would never, ever be able to do the preaching work.
In fact, maybe when you were first studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses, maybe you said something like this.
I will never go from door to door.
You will never see me walking down the street, knocking on doors, but what happened?
As you grew in your faith, you wanted to share the things that you were learning.
You wanted to talk about all the wonderful things that you were hearing about Jehovah.
Yes, faith helps us conquer our fears.
It helps us overcome shyness.
It helps us overcome indifference in the territory.
It helps us overcome opposition or even government bans.
Hitler, Stalin, the Soviet Union, and even Russia today, all of them have said that they would crush Jehovah's Witnesses
and they would put an end to our preaching.
But what happened?
Our brothers and sisters kept on preaching, despite whatever opposition came.
And our brothers today, living under similar circumstances under ban, continue preaching also.
They do not give up. Why?
Why are they able to keep going because of the power of faith?
Faith moves them to action and to continue telling the good news no matter what the circumstances may be.
Let's go on to the fourth point.
Our faith moves us to act in ways that bring blessings to us.
Now, think about this.
Some people who saw and heard the teaching of Jesus and His works, they put faith in Him.
They believed that Jesus was able to heal them.
And so, that faith led to blessings, well in what way?
Well, sometimes when Jesus healed individuals, what did He say?
He said, your faith has made you well.
In other words, if those people had not exercised faith in Jesus, they would not have come to Him and they would never have experienced the healing that He gave them.
What's the point?
Today, we are not looking to be physically healed through our faith in Jesus.
But many of us have made major decisions, made major changes in our lives in order to become disciples of Christ.
Perhaps we left promising careers, perhaps we left fame, perhaps we gave up higher education or whatever it may be.
But what is the promise that Jesus made to all of us who have made these decisions based on faith?
In Mark chapter 10 and verse 29, look what Jesus said.
No one has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the good news.
Who will not get 100 times more now in this period of time, houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children and fields with persecution and in the coming system of things, ever lasting life.
What's the point?
You see, we've made these decisions. We may have walked away from many things in the world, but by putting faith in Christ Jesus, what amazing blessings have come to us.
Just like Jesus said, 100 times more than what we have given up. That is the power of faith.
Let's look at number five.
Faith helps us to win our struggle against the superhuman spirit forces. Well now, how so?
Let's read together Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 16. Ephesians 6 and verse 16.
It says, besides all of this, take up the large shield of faith, with which you will be able to extinguish all the wicked ones burning arrows.
What is the point? Did you notice that here in Ephesians 6, faith is compared to a large shield.
Just like a large shield that covers most of the body, faith in Jehovah God and His promises for the future can shield us from, what does it say in verse 16?
From all the wicked ones burning arrows. We can be completely protected. Well, what does that mean?
It means that through our faith we have the power to get up and turn off that television. We have the power to walk out of that movie theater.
We have the power to unplug that computer, if necessary, to get rid of those temptations or bad ideas that could motivate us to enter into a course of wrong.
It is no wonder that first Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 8 compares faith to a breastplate that can protect our figurative heart from temptation and from the power of sin.
That is real power. But now let's go to our sixth point.
Faith moves us to trust that our prayers to Jehovah God are heard and that Jehovah will answer them if they are in harmony with His will.
This is what Jesus said. Will you read it with me? It's Mark chapter 11 and verse 24.
Jesus said, this is why I tell you all the things you pray and ask for have faith that you have received them and you will have them.
Well now brothers, when we have that faith that the things we are asking Jehovah, He's hearing us. He's listening to us, especially during these troubled times in the midst of this pandemic, when we have many anxieties and concerns, how wonderful that we can believe that Jehovah God is hearing us and that He's going to provide an answer to us just exactly in harmony with what we need.
So, after considering these six different factors, wouldn't you agree with me that faith is powerful? It has real power to make things that seem impossible to men become realities for those who have faith in Jehovah.
Well, how thankful we can be that Jehovah is helping us to develop this wonderful quality through solid evidence, through accurate knowledge and through His precious Holy Spirit.
Well, that brings us to that third question. How can we build up our faith and maybe more specifically, how is this convention going to help us to build our faith?
Well, of course, the convention is going to include many talks, symposiums, interviews, we're going to have a two-part Bible drama, so there is much to look forward to.
But maybe just for a few minutes, would you open up your program, perhaps on your device like I'm using here today, and let's consider some of the highlights that we can expect to see in our convention.
So you'll notice on day one, the theme for the day is from Luke chapter 17 and verse 5, give us more faith.
Would you like to strengthen your relationship with Jehovah? Well, pay attention to the dramatic Bible reading. That's where we're going to learn about how faith moved Noah to be able to obey Jehovah.
Even though the things Jehovah asked of him were very, very large, take notice of that audio drama.
And then in the afternoon, are you a person that loves Jehovah's creation? Well, the second symposium of our convention, use creation to build your faith, is going to show us how Jehovah's love, His wisdom and His power are reflected in all the beautiful things that He made.
And it's going to show us also that Jehovah not only has the ability, but the desire to fulfill His promises for the future.
And then how about this? How strong is your faith? Well, take notice of the final talk on Friday afternoon. That's where we're going to hear the talk, keep testing whether you are in the faith, how.
That will give us an opportunity to look at our own faith and see just how strong it is. Let's go to day two.
There we see that the theme for the day is going to be Jude 3, put up a hard fight for the faith.
Have you begun to use our new study publication, Enjoy Life Forever? Well, we'll all want to listen carefully to the talk, Build Faith Using Enjoy Life Forever.
That's going to discuss how we can use this new study publication to reach the heart of our student, but also to help our student to build faith.
Within Jehovah's organization, we have many brothers and sisters who have unbelieving mates. We have many who are part of single parent families, and we have many who are single.
The symposium entitled Fighters Successful Fighters for the Faith is going to show us what we can learn from these faithful Christians. Take note.
And then looking in the afternoon, although we can't travel right now, we're going to have the opportunity to go on around the world tour.
Because the video how our brothers are showing faith is going to take us all around the world and show us how our brothers are manifesting faith in many, many different parts of this beautiful earth.
And then you are all in for an amazing treat with part one of the Bible drama, Daniel, a lifetime of faith.
Now, I think I can say confidently that this is absolutely the best drama that we have ever produced. You are going to love it.
Well, the last talk on day two is a serious one. It's going to contrast faith destroyers with faith builders. And it's going to show us how we can strengthen our trust in Jehovah's Word and also in his organization.
Well, finally day three, our theme is going to be Matthew 21, 21. If you have faith, it will happen.
We're going to look at what we can learn from faithful women of God. You'll notice there's an eight-part symposium that shows us how the women featured in each talk showed faith, but also how we can imitate their faith.
And then in the afternoon, we have the thrilling finale of that Bible drama, Daniel, a lifetime of faith.
And finally, then, the convention will conclude all too soon with the very motivating and moving talk, become powerful by your faith.
Well, brothers, would you like to see just a taste of what's in store and some of the videos we're going to be seeing? Let's watch.
I could tell from the doctor's voice the news wasn't good. I just didn't expect my health to worsen so quickly.
If a gun is what I need to protect my family, won't Jehovah understand?
I knew how mom felt about the holidays, but I also learned how Jehovah felt.
It was as if a veil had been lifted from my eyes. That was the moment Jehovah introduced himself to me.
In my darkest times, Jehovah's words brought me comfort.
I knew these words would build my faith.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good.
Well, doesn't that wet your appetite for what is coming at this convention?
Now, keep in mind, some of the videos at the convention present real accounts, but many others are just dramatizations.
Now, what does that mean? Well, the dramatizations don't portray real people or real events, but they depict situations that help to teach us the truth.
Jehovah God loves and appreciates men and women of faith, men and women just like you.
He is determined to reward men and women like that with an amazing reward. Would you read it with me? Let's look at John, chapter 6 and verse 40.
John, chapter 6 and verse 40, it says,
For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who recognizes the Son and exercises faith in Him should have ever lasting life, and I will resurrect Him on the last day.
Those exercising faith can be certain of receiving this reward.
John, chapter 3 verse 36, Jesus said,
The one who exercises faith in the Son has, has ever lasting life.
So, dear brothers and sisters, as we begin this wonderful convention,
please be determined to take notes, be determined to meditate on the things that you will hear so that you may cultivate, maintain and strengthen your faith.
If you do, you too will become powerful by faith and receive the wonderful amazing reward of ever lasting life.